Update for stable (#325)
flarum/docs: docs/extend/i18n.md

3. As a last-ditch effort, it will look for a "generic" English translation of the output.
4. If none of the above are available, it will give up and display a translation key.

> Since English translations could be the only thing standing between forum users and unsightly translation keys, we strongly recommend including a complete set of English resources with every extension. (You will also need to include English resources if you wish to list your extension on the Flarum Marketplace, when that launches). Generally, extension developers will include english translations in their extension, and other language translations in a [language pack](language-packs.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since English translations could be the only thing standing between forum users and unsightly translation keys, we strongly recommend including a complete set of English resources with every extension. (You will also need to include English resources if you wish to list your extension on the Flarum Marketplace, when that launches). Generally, extension developers will include English translations in their extension, and other language translations in a [language pack](language-packs.md).
```

> Since English translations could be the only thing standing between forum users and unsightly translation keys, we strongly recommend including a complete set of English resources with every extension. (You will also need to include English resources if you wish to list your extension on the Flarum Marketplace, when that launches). Generally, extension developers will include english translations in their extension, and other language translations in a [language pack](language-packs.md).

Reviewer: Oops, I suggested the same thing, and I think @askvortsov1 merged my commit suggestion. I'll mark this one as resolved.

### Pluralization and ICU MessageFormat

On occasion, you may need to provide alternate versions of a translation to accommodate pluralization of a word or phrase. Flarum uses the[ICU MessageFormat](https://lokalise.com/blog/complete-guide-to-icu-message-format/#Pluralization) syntax to support selecting versions of translations based on variables. The most frequent use case is pluralization and genderization.

```js
const remaining = this.minPrimary - primaryCount;
return app.translator.trans(
  'choose_primary_placeholder',
  { count: remaining }
);
```

This example is from the [Choose Tags modal](https://github.com/flarum/tags/blob/master/js/src/forum/components/TagDiscussionModal.js) of the Tags extension, where it tells the user how many more primary tags can be selected. Here's the English translation in ICU MessageFormat for the above code:

```yaml
choose_primary_placeholder: "{count, plural, one {Choose a primary tag} other {Choose {count} primary tags}}"
```

Of course English has only two variants: singular or plural. You may want to provide additional variants when creating translations for a language that has more than one plural form.

> See the [Symfony Translation docs](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation/message_format.html) for more complex examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [Symfony Translation docs](https://symfony.com/doc/5.2/translation/message_format.html) for more complex examples.
```

Translation is generally handled by Flarum's front-end client. However, you can use translations in your PHP code if you need to.

First, you'll need to get an instance of the `Flarum\Locale\Translator` class. You'll usually do this by typehinting this class in the constructor of your class so a translator instance is injected by the [IoC Container](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/container). If dependency injection is not available, you can use `resolve(Translator::class)`. Don't forget a `use Flarum\Locale\Translator;` statement at the top of your PHP file!
```

Then, the API is similar to the JavaScript Translator class. You can use `$translator->trans` like you'd use `app.translator.trans` in JavaScript.

> You can learn more about the Translator's methods in [Symfony's `Translator` documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation/message_format.html), which Flarum's `Translator` extends.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can learn more about the Translator's methods in [Symfony's `Translator` documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/5.2/translation/message_format.html), which Flarum's `Translator` extends.
```
